feat(eslint-plugin): [return-await] check for-await loop iteree (#10008)
typescript-eslint/typescript-eslint: packages/eslint-plugin/docs/rules/await-thenable.mdx

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Async Iteration (`for await...of` Loops)

This rule also inspects [`for await...of` statements](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/for-await...of), which are designed for iterating over async-iterable objects.

> If the value being iterated over is not async-iterable, an ordinary `for...of` statement is preferable, even if the value is an iterable of Thenables.

Reviewer: This is debatable. Banning iterables of thenables should be an option.

Author: Eh, kind of... in any case, I was going off of https://github.com/typescript-eslint/typescript-eslint/issues/8858#issuecomment-2148977352. It's easy enough to add an option to allow iterables of thenables, though I'm -0.5 on doing so.

Reviewer: In lieu of an option, can we add more motivation to the docs (as what I said in that comment)?

Author: Good point! Made some changes around this 👍

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Async Iteration (`for await...of` Loops)

This rule also inspects [`for await...of` statements](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/for-await...of), and reports if the value being iterated over is not async-iterable.

:::info[Why does the rule report on `for await...of` loops used on an array of Promises?]

> While it is valid JavaScript to use `for await...of` with synchronous iterables (it falls back to synchronous iteration), it is inadvisable to do so.
> Synchronous iteration over thenables and asynchronous iteration are fundamentally different things, and the `for await...of` has several behaviors that are specifically designed for operating on async-iterables, that do not apply to sync-iterables.
> 
> For one, the `for await...of` loop accesses its fulfilled values sequentially, which is an appropriate behavior for async-iterables, but is not always desirable for sync-iterables of Thenables.
> For instance, sync-iterables may need to manipulate their Thenable entries directly, without accessing their fulfillment values at all (that is to say, without awaiting them).
> 
> Because of this, the error-handling protocol of the `for await...of` loop works properly for async-iterables, but subtly permits unclosed generators and unhandled promise rejections when operating on sync-iterables of Thenables. For detailed examples of this, see the [MDN documentation on using `for await...of` with sync-iterables](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/for-await...of#iterating_over_sync_iterables_and_generators).
> 
> Instead of using the `for await...of` loop with sync-iterables of Thenables, or using `await` on promises within the body of a `for...of` (which also permits floating promise rejections), consider instead using one of the [promise concurrency methods](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise#promise_concurrency) for robust behavior.

Reviewer: This is really long and I couldn't grasp the point well, so suggesting a rewrite.

```suggestion
While `for await...of` can be used with synchronous iterables, and it will await each promise produced by the itereable, it is inadvisable to do so.
There are some tiny nuances that you may want to consider.

The biggest difference between using `for await...of` and using `for...of` (plus awaiting each result yourself) is error handling.
When an error occurs within the loop body, `for await...of` does _not_ close the original sync iterable, while `for...of` does.
For detailed examples of this, see the [MDN documentation on using `for await...of` with sync-iterables](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/for-await...of#iterating_over_sync_iterables_and_generators).

Also consider whether you need sequential awaiting at all. Using `for await...of` may obscure potential opportunities for concurrent processing, such as those reported by [`no-await-in-loop`](https://eslint.org/docs/latest/rules/no-await-in-loop). Consider instead using one of the [promise concurrency methods](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise#promise_concurrency) for better performance.
```

Is there a point I missed? Honestly I don't understand the point about floating promises. Those are tangential to this issue.

Author: Yeah, your version is better 😁

> Honestly I don't understand the point about floating promises. Those are tangential to this issue.

Fair - I agree that they're tangential, so I think it makes sense to leave it off.

If you were curious, I was just trying to get at the fact that this causes avoidable rejections:
```ts
for (const promise of [Promise.reject(1), Promise.reject(2)] {
    const value = await promise;
    console.log(value);
}
```

See also - https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/18918 lol
